Experimentation/HEDM_forward_modeling/Readme.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext/blob/master/MeshnicsNext_Assets/mechanics_next_wordmark.png" width=64px>

# Far-field High-energy Diffraction Microscopy Spot Simulation (Forward Modeling) Utility

A utility to read raw GE2 or GE3 files obtained during a [far-field high-energy diffraction microscopy](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/0c56/6a8040f5d60674063d41a3628b1da8d5270a.pdf) (ff-HEDM) experiment and segment the spots
in the data using connected component segmentation, local intensity maxima finding, and watershed segmentation. This utlity is particularly useful when
the data consists of multiple phases such that the Debye-Scherrer rings from the two phases have large intensity contrast but small
radial separation.

## Installation
### Prerequisites
1. Linux system.
2. Python. [Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html) distribution is recommended.
3. heXRD package. See [installation instruction in the Wiki](https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext/wiki/heXRD-on-Stampede).
4. NumPy, SciPy, and Scikit-learn packages.
5. [Pymatgen](http://pymatgen.org/#conda-install-recommended) library.
6. Access to multiple processors will significantly speed-up the processing. Hence,
running this program on a workstation or a supercomputer (e.g., Stampede) is recommended.

### Installation steps
1. Install Miniconda if necessary.
2. Clone the MechanicsNext Git repo. `git clone https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext`
3. Note the directory where MechanicsNext was cloned. We will call it `MECHANICSNEXT_DIR`
4. Create a new configuration file (we will call it `config.yml`) based on the examples in the `examples_synth_fwd_modeling_patterns` folder.
5. Make sure necessary detector configuration file, CIF file (for optional structure factor calculation), and the material file are present at appropriate locations. Generally
detector and material files are kept in the same folder as the configuration file.

## Running the utility
Run the utility using `python MECHANICSNEXT_DIR/Experimentation/HEDM_forward_modeling/synth_fwd_modeling_patterns.py config.yml`

### Running on Stampede supercomputer
After following the Installation steps above, the utility can be run on Stampede using the following job file.

```
#!/bin/bash

#SBATCH -J JOBNAME          # Job name
#SBATCH -o JOBNAME.%j.out   # stdout; %j expands to jobid
#SBATCH -e JOBNAME.%j.err   # stderr; skip to combine stdout and stderr
#SBATCH -p largemem         # queue
#SBATCH -N 1                # Number of nodes, not cores (16 cores/node)
#SBATCH -n 32               # Total number of MPI tasks (if omitted, n=N)
#SBATCH -t 01:00:00         # max time

python MECHANICSNEXT_DIR/Experimentation/HEDM_forward_modeling/synth_fwd_modeling_patterns.py config.yml
```

## Basic algorithm

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext/blob/master/MeshnicsNext_Assets/Experimentation_HEDM_forward_modeling_algorithm.png" width=400px>
</p>

Commit message:

More description to forward modeling readme.

Experimentation/HEDM_forward_modeling/Readme.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext/blob/master/MeshnicsNext_Assets/mechanics_next_wordmark.png" width=64px>

# Far-field High-energy Diffraction Microscopy Spot Simulation (Forward Modeling) Utility

A utility to simulate ff-HEDM area diffraction patterns from microstructures. The microstructure is specified in terms of
the position, crystal structure, and elastic strain of each material point in a discrete mesh generated over a virtual 
specimen. Diffraction patterns are simulated using forward modeling routines in [heXRD](https://github.com/praxes/hexrd).
Optionally structure factors calculated using [Pymatgen](http://pymatgen.org/) are used. The output is written to text
and GE2 files.

## Installation
### Prerequisites
1. Linux system.
2. Python. [Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html) distribution is recommended.
3. heXRD package. See [installation instruction in the Wiki](https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext/wiki/heXRD-on-Stampede).
4. NumPy, SciPy, and Scikit-learn packages.
5. [Pymatgen](http://pymatgen.org/#conda-install-recommended) library.
6. Access to multiple processors will significantly speed-up the processing. Hence,
running this program on a workstation or a supercomputer (e.g., Stampede) is recommended.

### Installation steps
1. Install Miniconda if necessary.
2. Clone the MechanicsNext Git repo. `git clone https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext`
3. Note the directory where MechanicsNext was cloned. We will call it `MECHANICSNEXT_DIR`
4. Create a new configuration file (we will call it `config.yml`) based on the examples in the `examples_synth_fwd_modeling_patterns` folder.
5. Make sure necessary detector configuration file, CIF file (for optional structure factor calculation), and the material file are present at appropriate locations. Generally
detector and material files are kept in the same folder as the configuration file.

## Running the utility
Run the utility using `python MECHANICSNEXT_DIR/Experimentation/HEDM_forward_modeling/synth_fwd_modeling_patterns.py config.yml`

### Running on Stampede supercomputer
After following the Installation steps above, the utility can be run on Stampede using the following job file.

```
#!/bin/bash

#SBATCH -J JOBNAME          # Job name
#SBATCH -o JOBNAME.%j.out   # stdout; %j expands to jobid
#SBATCH -e JOBNAME.%j.err   # stderr; skip to combine stdout and stderr
#SBATCH -p largemem         # queue
#SBATCH -N 1                # Number of nodes, not cores (16 cores/node)
#SBATCH -n 32               # Total number of MPI tasks (if omitted, n=N)
#SBATCH -t 01:00:00         # max time

python MECHANICSNEXT_DIR/Experimentation/HEDM_forward_modeling/synth_fwd_modeling_patterns.py config.yml
```

## Basic algorithm

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/MechanicsNext/MechanicsNext/blob/master/MeshnicsNext_Assets/Experimentation_HEDM_forward_modeling_algorithm.png" width=400px>
</p>


## Microstructure file format
TODO
